>> Will: What are we doing in
our first line of code here,
if you can just verbalize that for
me so I can then diagram it out and
we can make sure we're continuing to
refine our technical communication.
What do we do in that first
line of code there, Suzie?
>> Suzie: We have a cons, obj.
>> Will: Obj,
[LAUGH] we can pronounce it obj.
>> Suzie: Or obj.
>> Will: Obj.
>> Suzie: Object.
>> Will: I don't know if that's allowed,
but yeah, obj, exactly.
And it is?
>> Suzie: An object.
>> Will: An object, fantastic.
There it is.
Okay, and what properties does it
have immediately assigned to it?
>> Suzie: Num.
>> Will: Num.
>> Suzie: Properties.
>> Will: Yeah.
>> Suzie: Value of three.
>> Will: Fantastic, well put,
okay, now, let's go and access it.
And the very next line Michael,
talk me through accessing it.
>> Michael: We are calling obj and-
>> Will: Careful using the word calling
for an object, that's for functions.
So I would guess we are looking up pbj or
we're referencing obj or
we're, yeah, we're looking at memory for
obj and we find it.
>> Michael: Yep,
we get the property name, num.
>> Will: Yeah, exactly which is the value?
>> Michael: a 3.
>> Will: 3, right.
Easy, or maybe not, or maybe easy.
It's uses next property.
Obj.hasOwnProperty and
it's a function that takes in
an argument the string num.
Let's do the lookup.
Michael.
Where do we look for obj?
>> Michael: In the memory.
>> Will: In global memory, spot on, yeah.
Do we find it?
>> Michael: Yes
>> Will: Yes, where do we look for
hasOwnProperty?
We look for it on on the object right,
it's just like num, we're looking for it.
We found num, it was there, we looked for
hasOwnProperty, is it on there?
>> Michael: I don't see it.
>> Will: It's definitely definitely
not but we do look on the object,
because it's a property of obj,
which we're trying to access.
Do we find it?
>> Michael: No.
>> Will: No, do we give up?
>> Will: No,
where do you think we might go and look?
What hidden property?
>> David: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will: Yes, David.
I meant to ask somebody, but
that is spot on, you're right.
A hidden property proto.
A hidden property proto, but
where's that linking to,
okay, now we need to
know about something that
is built into JavaScript as
soon as we turn on JavaScript.
[INAUDIBLE] as soon as we start runtime,
our JavaScript engine up.
As soon as we do so,
it automatically adds in
the background this, that word is ruined.
Automatically adds, wait for it,
a function object combo
with the label object.
Well, what would object be do we think?
Well, probably an object, no,
it's a function object combo.
It's a function,
how do I show these as being fundamental?
They're built in, we don't assign these,
we don't declare these.
I'm gonna use orange to sort of mark
off stuff that we're not assigning.
It's there in JavaScript by default, okay?
Not very clear though, I don't know.
It's in memory, but
we're not putting there.
And one of the first things
in there is called object.
It is a function, it's actually
a function that by the way when called
with a new keyword it's gonna
return us an object, but
we don't need to worry about that for now.
It's just an object.
Is that right?
No, it's not, it's a function, but
as a function therefore,
must also be an object.
So it's a function and
also an object, okay?
>> Will: There it is,
there's the object, there's the object.
>> Will: That object by default as all
objects in function object combos have,
has what property do we think Chris,
what all objects in function object
combos have a property by default.
>> Chris: Prototype?
>> Will: Fantastic, thank you Chris,
yes, prototype.
Which is itself a big old object,
>> Will: A sub-object I guess,
and that object has,
>> Will: A function on it,
a property on it called has own property.
It has a few others like four or
five others, one's called, I don't know.
What are they called?
Two local strings,
is that a few others on there?
There it is, has own property.
And this object here
is what our underscore
proto underscore points
to to this object here.
The object.prototype.
So we'd see in here
the word object.prototype.
So Seth for
me look at process on obj that has on
property that jobs will actually follow.
>> Seth: So
it's gonna look on obj in government ring.
It's not gonna find it there,
it's gonna freak out a little,
then it's gonna look in the proto,
look in the object,
look at its prototype,
find has own property, and then be happy.
>> Will: Fantastic, excellent,
it's gonna call it, and
check on obj that num exists,
and give us back true.
Okay, folk this is to say,
I would call this dog fooding.
JavaScript dog food, that's that
phrase meaning we use our own product.
Dog foods, its own prototype or nature.
It wants all of its things it creates,
that we create, but also any objects that
it creates, any functions to all have
access to a bunch of bonus functionality.
They could have used any language.
An array in Ruby or
a dictionary in Python,
they all have access to
certain functionality.
But where's that coming from?
Well, in JavaScript it's
coming from using its own very
prototypal nature to give access
to a bunch of shared functions.
They're not mysteriously under the hood,
hidden away.
They're right there,
I can literally go console log.
obj.dunder score per dunder
scorehasOwnProperty,
and it will show me that
function that I can use.
It is right there, these are not buried.
These are not like implementations
in JavaScript under,
in Machine code under the hood of Java,
so these are JavaScript implementations.
Very interesting, okay.
So what this means folk is
when we in our creation of
user 1 get an object that
says name fill score for
dunder score proto dunder score
is usercreator.prototype,
go grab those functions there.
Well, hold on,
do we lose access to hasOwnProperty?
No, because that, we're gonna see in
a moment, don't worry, that object that
has increment and log in on the prototype
object itself, is an object.
So itself has a proto reference,
a proto property which leads
up to object.prototype.
It's a chain of links up and all what
we do is we intercede, in that chain.
We say, okay, user one,
you're dunder proto dunder,
is going to refer to
Usercreator.prototype which is an object.
That object has its own dunder proto, so
if we don't find has our own property on
that object, because we've only
got increment and login on there.
We head up to the next one
object.prototype which
is where it's at exactly.